The Joe Rogan experience.
I think our problem in this country, there's there's many problems,
but one of our problems is the loudest voices on the fringes.
And this is one of the things that I wanna discuss with you is what's going on
in Portland. Yeah.
And I think what's going on in Portland is the loudest voices on the fringes
that people on the right and on the far right. And whether,
or recognizes recognizing as emblematic right of
the left, they think it defines the left. And I don't think it does. And I,
I think it is,
it's a symptom of it's it's a symptom of, first of all,
terrible govern of, of,
of someone who's allowing this to flourish inside the,
the mayor of Portland who seems to be supporting this in some sort of a weird
way, weird way. And, and ideologically believes that Antifa,
just because of a name stands for antifascist, if you had no name,
which you would have as a bunch of hood wearing mask, wearing violent th right.
Who are beating people who disagree with them and cuz that's what we saw with
that. Andy, how do you say his name go? Is it I think it's Andy. No, no.
And it's N G O right. I, I treated the G as silent until somebody corrects.
I think, I think you're right. Um, what you saw from that video? Yeah.
That anyone could support that of with a person who's just talking.
They, I mean he, if what I've seen of him yeah.
What they have tried to describe that he supports neo-Nazis that he supports the
proud boy. I have seen none of this. I've seen no evidence of this,
but I've seen the narrative trotted out over and over again as a justification
for violence against him.
When the left supports bullying in the,
the worst possible form, ganging up on someone, punching them,
hitting them with sticks, Crow, bars, all this crazy,
thinking that it's okay to throw milkshakes at people thinking that this is
fine. This is nothing. If you, what? I,
I think this is a horrible precedent to set and it's a terrible,
it's terrible move. If you're playing a game,
it's a terrible fir first move because things only escalate.
They don't deescalate. No one says, wow, you beat the outta Andy. No.
So this is a mystery.
Right? Like what the.
Hell is going on right now? Well,
the hell's you allowing people to wear masks and carry backpacks with weapons.
And there's a natural human inclination. When someone gets hit to jump,
been and hit 'em too. So let you see it all the time. Watch world star,
go to world star,
hip hop.com and watch someone gets hit a bunch of people just jumping and hit
'em. It happens at truck stops and high schools. It happens.
People get brain damage, people die, punch each other all the time. Yeah.
People permanent injury. When you're seeing in Portland,
there was one of 'em where an old guy got hit in the head with a Probar right by
some mass kid because the old guy apparently disagreed or they all disagree on
things. I don't think someone's decided my guess is.
That the old guy is not exactly as portrayed.
I believe that the old guy may have been there with a
telecoping Baton.
Oh. So he was hitting people. Let's.
Take this. I think this is so worthwhile, but like let's do it. Right. Okay.
Because I think this is so mysterious. What the help are people doing?
Supporting right? Uh, Andy, no being beaten up on video. Let's so let's.
Stay, stay with him because that's the,
the best clearest example of someone who's a tiny little gay man. He's tiny.
I mean, he represents so many different maligned populations, right?
He he's pretty intersectional. Yes.
He's Asian. He's.
An immigrant. He's an immigrant. He's gay. I, I, is he a Republican?
I thought he was left of center, but I was told he was a.
Conservative journal. I've been told I'm a AltRight guy. Yeah, exactly.
I Don' exactly. It's very confusing. All right. He's also, uh,
dominive in physical form. He's not de he's not threatening physically. Right.
And, uh, they've chosen this guy as an example.
And one of the more disturbing things were,
how many people saw the video and were justifying it,
saying things like get another hobby. These an, our,
the antifascist will not stand for, you know, your, your,
your bigotry and your hate. Like what are you talking? Okay.
You think it's okay to punch this guy? Like the,
the fact that you guys all piled on and punched him and through milkshake. This.
Is, this is so I I've been thinking a lot about it. I have a model. I'm,
I'm happy to hear yours because there is a mystery.
Can we both agree to be at the beginning that you would imagine that that video
would've shocked people and to find so many people sort of excusing it is really
shocking. Well it's and given that he's also inter clearly interntersect like,
you wouldn't predict this from first principles, right? No, you.
Wouldn't. If you looked at it on paper, you definitely wouldn't. Especially if,
if you allowed him to self-identify as left a center. Okay.
So here's how the, I think the model goes, okay.
Unless you wanna give yours first. No, go.
Ahead. All right.
The first thing that we have to understand is that there's a division.
I wanna lay this out super carefully. The first division is between the,
what you're calling the loudest voices. And I'm gonna call the most
courageous, oh, I don't wanna call it courageous.
The most willing to accept loss.
The voice is most willing to accept loss.
Most of the left does not want to be dragged to the extreme left.
And so you, this thing about why are you focusing on a fringe?
And the answer is because the fringe is running the show, in my opinion.
What do you mean by willing to accept loss?
If you go into an Antifa versus proud boys, Malay,
you're willing, you, you accept that you may get clocked, bike lock.
I don't think that's correct. Or at the time, I don't think that's correct.
I think you're dealing with people that have no concept of real violence.
No experience of real violencelaring you seen him, have you seen yes.
They're they're it's cosplay.
It's cosplaylarrping have you seen the image of the guy? Who's a suspect.
Looks like he's never worked out a day in his life.
Looks like he's never been outside. And I think these people are playing a game.
We've we've agreed on.
This. Yes. Okay. But you are willing,
so you think you're gonna get into a wily coyote versus the road runner kind of
a thing where both of them always survived to the next cart. They have.
No idea what they're doing. Yeah. Have you ever,
have you ever seen a fight between people that have no idea how to fight? Yes.
Yeah. Okay. We all have. I I've been one of those. Okay.
That STUs me as a martial arts expert.
It STUs me that people are willing to participate in that.
It's like me not knowing how to get in a motorcycle and getting in a race.
Right. I don't, I don't know how anyone's willing to do that,
but they're willing to do that and they're do that because they're delusional
they're and Delus and supported in their delusional perspective,
by the giant numbers of them. Okay. They all get together. And then,
then they wear masks, which further emphasizes this illusion,
that they're part of the game. But Joe look.
Assume that you are not even in a physical situation,
you're willing to be very loud on social media, about simplistic perspectives.
Yes. And you're willing to become a pariah at some level, because.
Are you though? I think mostly you're supported. Okay. I need far more support.
I.
I'm not necessarily.
You are gonna trigger so many times on this explanation that I probably just
need a little place in the table to start building this up and then you can tear
it the, okay. Okay. The first belief is,
is that the belief that I have is that the fringes are much more running the
show than the people who claim that this is a small number of people believe
that the fringes are scary. Fringes are willing to go places.
The rest of us aren't I agree with.
You on both sides left and right left. And.
Right.
So I spend a lot of time focused on the fringes because the fringes have become
terrifying and the middle has become cowardly.
And the whole principle about the whole ideaw thing was about creating
a noncowardly
core that could actually potentially hold the center.
<affirmative> um, because people are actually fairly courageous.
Like you would have to say, my brother is fairly courageous. Ben Shapiro,
Andy know Sam Harris. These are people who've stood up to death threats.
You know, I, I, I have a guy who's threatening me every day of my life. Uh,
you know, coming through, uh, the internet and my family.
You have to have some courage in order to be part of this thing.
And that's part of my irritation when people come after it.
So there is a cowardly center and a very
terrifying fringe and the fringe is going around the whole thing right.
Left and right,
the next thing is that people are secretly weirdly
sympathetic with their violent, the violent fringe to their extreme,
rather than making common cause across the center. So for example,
you imagine that you run a laundromat and you're being visited by a
member of organized crime every week.
And he comes into your laundromat and he kind of plays with your stuff.
And he says, oh, I'd be ashamed.
If anything happened to your business and he shakes you down, starts saying, oh,
you know, I noticed that you have a daughter. I would love to date her.
Perhaps perhaps will go out sometime you hate this guy.
And then some sort of violent VI vigilante element that's operating extra
judicially after you've gone to the police over and over again,
breaks the guy's kneecaps, right?
You're weirdly sympathetic with the vigilante because you're being terrified by
a group that is not being taken care of.
I think that this is in part why some elements of the left that
are,
should be more responsible that have institutional positions that have platforms
that they can broadcast are weirdly sympathetic to Antifa and why country
club Republicans are weirdly sympathetic to some of these far right groups is
that they view them <affirmative> as this is the dangerous group.
That's kind of taking care of the problem that I can't stand up to.
So you've got this bizarre cowardly sympathy from the center who
won't actually stand up and say,
I have more in common with a country club Republican in like in my case,
I view myself as a progressive or a least a liberal,
I have more in common with a country club Republican than somebody who's got a
bike lock.
Who's looking for trouble in a street demonstration trying to smash up a
Starbucks, right?
I don't want the help from my left.
Now the, the group that wants to play this out,
using these sort of proxy groups to handle the problems
is saying, look, we're gonna,
we're gonna sound an air horn before one of these things so that all reasonable
people can get the hell out of the way. And if you don't respond,
then your collateral damage and that's on you. That's how they see this. I,
I think that's for asking. So in other words,
I think Andy know is the guy who doesn't listen to the air horn,
Brett Weinstein, doesn't listen to the air horn. Jordan, Jordan Peterson,
Sam Harris, don't listen to the air horn.
I think that's very accurate in your description of these fringe,
people doing the work of the people that are more reasonable,
but are happy to have these bad people do,
do their work to fight this battle for them because they think that ultimately
it's for good. Yeah.
I need my organized crime group to get rid of your organized crime group. Yes.
Right? Yes. And so the idea is that the law and order people are like,
I really don't want,
anybody's organized crime group and I'm gonna actually stand up to the mob and
I'm actually not gonna pay you your God protection because I'm gonna own a
laundromat. And this is the United States of America and off that's,
that's the view that I represent. Yeah. I don't want, I don't. Thank you Antifa.
I don't need your help. Yeah. You know what?
I actually am much more afraid of the far. Right.
And the reason I concentrate my negative energy on the far left is what are you
trying to do? You're trying to get the genie out of the bottle on the far,
right. That is the danger. Yeah. You wanna see more Tiki torches. It's not,
teiki torches that you need to worry about.
It's armed people who come and they're not, they're not bringing bikes well,
and we're pushing ordinary human being to the extremes. Yeah.
Right. And the thing that I get is is that like,
I believe that the Republican party, you know, I just,
I never get a chance to say this stuff.
I have never gotten along with the Republican party. I just don't like it.
I view it as the thing that wants to exclude me from their country clubs.
I have an older model.
They're the group that wanted to put in condo developments in Yosemite valley
because they couldn't figure out why we would wanna preserve the national parks.
They were the ones that laughed about, uh, clubbing the baby seals. Ha ha ha.
I just always had this attitude. these people, right? This is my,
this is my emotional cadence.
And we always had this thing where the Democrats were the, we,
we had most of the smart people. And so in a tiny fraction of time,
we have seen this giant evaporation of intelligence. Uh, if not
actually through a lack of courage,
the people who represent responsible, left, wing,
thinking who believe in structural oppression,
but don't believe in the extent claimed, you know,
who want to keep making progress,
who want to make sure that traditionally marginalized groups are taken care
of that we take our responsibilities,
but not our guilt as the reason for trying to make a better world.
The.